Hello.
My name is Eric Blaanpie.
I'm a member of the QuickTime team,
the interactivity group.
I'm going to talk to you about what
we've got going on in interactivity.
First off, we'll go into what we're
doing in interactivity.
A little later on, we'll talk more about
the really new stuff.
When we talk about interactivity
in terms of QuickTime,
we're talking about the ability to
provide a much more active viewing
experience than what you'd get in a TV or
a linear video or a stream or something.
Interactive movies tend to hold
the user's attention in ways
that some other things don't.
Interactivity is a great teaching tool.
People get their hands on the
samples and examples and whatnot.
QuickTime interactive movies have
a great advantage of playing the
same on whichever platform you want.
You've got a self-contained thing.
You're not relying on the
JavaScript interpretation in
this or that browser on this
or that platform or anything.
It's a single movie.
Um,
Interactivity provides a great way
to customize the user experience,
including branding and whatnot.
In many cases,
as you'll see as we go on in this talk,
we're talking about QuickTime's
great strengths for integrating
various kinds of media.
Many other companies do some of
the kinds of media that we do,
but nobody lets you throw it
all together into really rich,
well-combined,
almost like little applications.
Finally,
Wired Actions are a big key to what
goes on in QuickTime interactivity.
The Wired Actions are the way
that we let you hook up and
manipulate the various properties
of any kind of QuickTime media.
We talk about media integration.
We have basically a few very
interactive track types that you
rely on for most interactive movies.
The sprite track is for bitmap images
that are used as sprites and they can
be animated various ways and they also
can have wired actions put on them to
turn them into buttons or whatever.
QuickTime VR is interactive
in that you can,
I mean, it's all about what
the user does with it,
panning it around and zooming it.
Also, with the hotspots you
can add more wiring.
And Macromedia Flash provides a
really great way to bring interactive
movie elements into your movie.
Although QuickTime's got
plenty of other tracks,
a few of which I have listed here.
All of these things can be thrown
together and we have all sorts of
ways to manipulate their various
properties in the appropriate ways.
Getting to Wired Actions a bit,
you can sort of think of it
as QuickTime scripting access,
although it is not a scripting method
and the application that creates the
Wired Actions can use whatever kind
of scripting interface it chooses to
and then compile to the Wired Actions.
For the user,
it's seen as the way to script
a movie and make it do things.
Like I said,
we provide access to many of the
properties of QuickTime media,
track properties for media
that make sense like sprites,
the individual sprites or whatever.
And things like VR,
you can set pan angles and all.
We have actions to
manipulate Flash media.
And it's a comprehensive growing list.
We have a lot of stuff.
It's been in here for a while
and we keep adding to it.
In fact,
here's a partial list of what we've got.
The blue ones are the new ones and
there's a few more and still some more.
If you'd like to be able to read that,
you can go off to the
developer documentation and
find a readable version.
Now, what's new?
Cubic VR shipped with QuickTime 5.
We also have added Media Skins.
Macromedia Flash 4 support,
whereas we had three before.
New Wired Actions to go with a lot
of these things and also do stuff
that we weren't doing at all before.
Server Communication via QT lists.
Oh, we're going to Cubic VR.
There's more on the other stuff.
The big deal about Cubic VR,
we've had QuickTime VR for a while,
but the panoramas didn't let you
look at the ceiling or the floor.
And if you did a very high field of view,
they were pretty inefficient.
Important thing to realize by Cubic
VR is that they work just like cylinders.
Your application doesn't need
to know anything about the fact
that it's playing a cubic pano
instead of a cylindrical pano.
[Transcript missing]
and turn that into Cubic VR movies.
There's been some third party work
and we have sample code called the
VRMakePanel library for exporting
Cubic VR movies from your application.
So let's go over here
and show some Cubic VR.
We've got a rather fresh topic here,
the Apple Store shot in
Cubic VR in a case where
[Transcript missing]
These two were provided by
Jeannie Fitzgerald of Axis Images.
And you know, it's got beautiful
high-speed performance.
It's really slick and you're
completely in the place.
There's no blocking out there.
That's it for that demo.
Go back to slides.
So, third-party authoring.
We've got RealViz has got a Stitcher,
which they previously had on Windows.
They've done an excellent
port of it to the Mac.
It's working very well on Mac OS X and 9.
It's in beta right now and
should be shipping quite soon.
VRWorks has had a tool out for doing all
sorts of VR authoring for a while now.
Their new version supports Cubic movies
if they've been authored elsewhere to add
various--put them into multi-node movies,
add hot spots, do things like that.
And the Squamish Media Group's tools
for doing interesting wired things
with QuickTime VR movies work just
as well with Cubes and some of them
have been upgraded to take advantage
of Cubic things like tilt parameters.
And, like I said,
RealViz is working well on OS X as
shown in the screenshot there.
And then we'll go on to Ken Turkowski
who's going to talk about our
support for adding it to your apps.
Thank you, Eric.
How many of you guys out there really
love getting code from the developer CDs,
trying to get it into your applications,
and get it running and linking?
I didn't think so.
It tends to be a lot of work.
First thing that happens is that
you go into Code Warrior and
it needs to convert the project
to get it into a newer project.
Then you're missing some headers.
And then you have to
go around finding them.
Well, I hope to change that
experience for you today.
Sometimes I like to pretend
like I'm a mathematician.
And one of the things that mathematicians
tend to do is they'll do proofs.
Proofs of one theorem.
They'll say theorem 201 is
true by virtue of theorem 200.
Well, what I want to do for you guys
today is to give you theorem 200
so that you can go on to 201 and
continue on with your value added.
Eric Blazik, Professor of Mathematics,
University of Michigan What I'll be
talking about today is some sample
code that makes cylindrical and cubic
QuickTime VR panoramas very easily
and something that you could easily
add to your application even today.
It takes us sources either G-Worlds,
picture files, or movie files.
The other thing I'm going to be talking
about today is an application that's
been built using this sample code.
This will make Cubic QuickTime VR movies
either from cube faces or from
equirectangular spherical picked images.
Now the sample code, as I mentioned,
makes either cylindrical or
cubic QuickTime VR movies.
It's library quality.
By that,
I mean that it has a rich interface
with enough parameters in there
so that you don't have to actually
go in and modify that code.
It's got one header that
you have to interface to.
You just drop the other
file into your application,
link, and run.
It's designed to be usable as is.
Now here's what the sample
code generally looks like.
There's a lot of different
kinds of interfaces,
but they all take the same general form.
You take a VR movie, picked, or G World,
convert it into a
QuickTime VR cylinder or G World.
You can also make a cubic panorama.
If you happen to be making
a cylindrical panorama,
you have the choice of either making the
classical style rotated panorama or the
more modern style non-rotated panorama.
There is a slight difference in the
performance of the non-rotated panorama
in our current rendering engine.
But you can make it either way.
There's also some code in there
for creating 1.0 panoramas,
but we don't encourage people
to make those panoramas anymore.
Now in this interface,
there's basically five parameters.
The first one is where most
of the complexity is buried,
and that's where you set the parameters,
the pan, tilt,
field of view for the initial view,
the minimum, maximum,
all sorts of things like that.
The rest of the things are the same.
You're going to have the sources.
You're going to have the source
picture or tiles or something,
the hotspots, the fast start tiles if you
want to include them or not.
If you don't have them,
you set those to null.
And then the final thing is where
do you want to save the movie.
So this is a particularly
simple interface,
very easy to use.
And the MakeCubic utility
application was built on top of that.
This uses that code and
beyond what that has to offer,
it's added a few additional features.
It has the ability to convert from
an equirectangular spherical pic.
Some of you out here may not
necessarily know what that is.
It's sort of like a Mercator
projection of the Earth,
where Greenland is huge and the
North Pole is extended to a whole
line on the top instead of a point.
There are some stitchers that
produce that as a native output.
Helmut Dersch's Panorama Tools being one
and RealVis's Stitcher being another.
I think RealVis will also produce
a Cubic VR movie directly,
too.
But regardless,
if you have that equirectangular pic,
you can convert that easily.
The other thing that's been
added to this application,
beyond that which the sample code does,
it will compute an optimum
minimum and default field of view.
Now, what do we mean by an
optimum field of view?
I consider some optimum to be
when there's no pixel zooming.
So if you have one-to-one pixel zooming,
that's sort of like one optimum.
It's one place where you can
get the maximum resolution
and the maximum field of view,
too.
The next thing that's added in
that application is that preview is
generated to be independent of the
resolution of the original panorama.
So if you have an extremely
high resolution panorama,
such as that made by the Panoscan camera,
you don't necessarily want to have
a panorama that only has one quarter
of the resolution for your preview.
You want to have something much smaller.
So here you get to actually
choose what the resolution is,
totally independent of the resolution.
Now, VRMakePano has some functions that
we don't make available in MakeCubic.
First of all,
it won't make cylindrical panoramas.
This is an application that's
just made for making cubics,
so we aren't including that.
The other thing is that it doesn't
allow you to make URL hotspots,
only undefined hotspots that
you would then later have
to define in your HTML code.
But if you want to make
your own application out of
the VRMakePano sample code,
you can do that,
and you can have URL access to that.
So now I'd like to go to
demo machine number two and
demonstrate the MakeCubic software.
This has been recently
carbonized so it can run on OS X.
As well as OS 9 and 8.
Now, there's really just two
menu selections here.
One of them is the Convert menu,
and that's the one where you'd
be doing most of your work.
There's two sections to it.
There's the
Source File Specification on top,
and then there's the
Movie Settings Specification
on the bottom.
So first, let's choose a panorama.
I'm going to choose a
panorama right here,
which was,
this is an equirectangular spherical pic,
which was made by
Dennis Glickman in France.
And we'll open that up,
have that selected.
You'll see it appears right there.
We can change the compression settings.
I usually like to set this
to... I usually like to set it
to 40%, but 39 is close enough.
We can choose to get grayscale for
the preview or blur the preview.
Now notice over here,
this section here for generating
the preview says pixels per degree.
Some people with panoramas, they'll say,
"Oh, I have a 10,000 pixels
per inch panorama." Well,
pixels per inch doesn't make
any sense for a panorama.
What really matters is
the pixels per degree.
And as it turns out,
pixels per degree happens to be
directly proportional to the focal
length of the lens that you use.
So here we specify that.
That can be either an integral
number like 1 or a fractional
number like .7 or whatever.
I tend to like something
between 1/2 and 1.
So we'll generate this.
Let's not blur it and
make a grayscale version.
I don't have a hotspot.
File for this.
So we won't select that.
Down on the bottom,
we can select our default pan and tilt.
So this would be the
default pan and tilt.
This is the pan angle.
Here's a default tilt angle.
And for the field of view, over here,
this has been automatically
computed based on the window size
and the resolution of the panorama.
That can be overridden by clicking off
this optimal FOV for the window size.
So if we change the window size to be,
say, square, 480,
you should see the field of view change.
And what that's trying to do is to set
the field of view so that your zooming
is going to be exactly 1:1 on the
pixels for the default field of view.
And for the minimum field of view,
that will be 2:1.
So, another feature that's
over here is Tiling.
Now, a lot of you are familiar with
cylindrical panoramas where you
can specify the tiling to be 24
by 1 or 48 by 4 or something.
We can do a similar sort of
thing with cubic panoramas,
only this tiling specifies the number
of tiles to be used on each face.
Here we can click the auto tile and in
this case it likes it as a 1 by 1 tiling,
so we'll just go with that.
But we could change it
to 2 by 1 or whatever.
Anyway, without further ado,
let me make this panorama.
It automatically chooses
a file name for me.
I can override that if I like.
And here it's converting
that equirectangular to each
of the faces at the moment.
Pretty soon it will flash by the print.
So, we have the preview track and then
the regular track and hopefully in
this window we now have a panorama.
This is tilted 50 degrees up, zoomed in.
This is at the optimum resolution
so that if we zoom in anymore we're
going to see the pixels blow up.
But it's limited to be 2 to 1.
Now, inside Make Cubic,
The first thing you need to
do is set your preferences.
You can set your preferences
for what you'd like your
compression parameters to be.
You can set what the optimal
field of view would be.
So if you don't like 2:1 for minimum,
you can change that so it's
automatically set that way.
And there's a number of other
parameters you can set as well.
So let me show you a
different kind of panorama,
one that's made from faces.
So here I have a number of faces,
six faces of a panorama that was
captured by Janie Fitzgerald.
and notice how that appears over here.
The program has parsed this to
determine what's similar between
the file names so it doesn't
take up a lot of space over here.
I do happen to have a hotspot
set of faces over here too,
so we will select those as well.
You can see the faces are selected.
And maybe I'll make this
to be 640 by 480 instead.
And leave that like that.
So now, when this creates it,
it will automatically
suggest a file name for me.
Reading all the picture files in,
creating everything,
there is the freshly made panorama.
Very easy to use, very powerful,
and it's free.
So I'd like to go back to the slides now.
With a message,
it's easy to make your application
write QuickTime VR files,
either cylindrical or cubic panoramas.
You can download VRMakePano.c
code this afternoon,
link it in with your application tonight,
and ship it tomorrow.
So I'd like to return
the presentation to Eric.
Okay, Media Skins,
an exciting new QuickTime 5 feature.
The essential idea behind a
Media Skin is it lets you have
an arbitrarily shaped movie.
The big deal here is that we're
skinning the media and not the player.
We hear a lot of talk about
skins in various applications,
but by skinning the
media and not the player,
it means that your content is
customized so that every time it plays,
regardless of how the user has
their QuickTime player set up,
it's going to look the same way.
Your message, your branding, whatever,
travels with the media.
And if you make a change and next week
you want it to be a little bit different,
you just change the movie
file and it's different Again,
you don't have to get anybody to
download a skin for the player.
It provides a great branding opportunity.
Whatever goes with your
media is always there.
And beyond the arbitrary
shape of the movie,
you've got the full interactive
tool set of QuickTime that we're
talking about here to make really
intricate and interesting movies.
And we'll be seeing some examples.
So we're going to go on to Demo 4.
Okay, let's see a basic skin movie.
Here we've got a skin.
Again, this has branding all over it.
It's a sprite movie with a video track.
They've built custom controls in it.
and every time this movie plays in
whatever version of QuickTime player,
this is how it's going to look.
It's a locked and
pre-designed presentation.
We get a little fancier than that,
or in some ways.
We've got a...
There's a skinned movie here
where there's a separate
navigation bar to allow you to
Select what movie you want.
We've got various wired actions going on.
And then upon clicking on something,
we open a related skinned player
that obviously goes with it.
to give you a little more ability
to give your look to your content.
We'll look at this movie a
little more a little later on.
So that's it for the
demos on skins just now.
Let's go back to slides.
[Transcript missing]
The new wired actions,
we've got all sorts of stuff going on.
Text tracks have gained a lot
of interactivity in QuickTime 5.
We can take user input,
we can have them be
manipulated via scripts,
we can enter text,
we can trap the key entry
much better than ever before,
so you can do a combination of
keyboard entry from the user
as well as script-based stuff.
We've got a lot of actions for setting
the styles and the fonts and the colors
and hypertext colors and whatnot.
Text tracks are very
interactive now in QuickTime 5.
We have some new application messages,
which primarily are seeing
use in QuickTime Player,
but these are not specifically
targeted just towards QuickTime Player.
Basically,
the wired action is a simple thing
which says send the app message with a
number to say which app message it is.
The ones that make a big difference
to the content authoring community,
especially once we've got skins out,
are the enter and exit full screen,
which people wanted a lot,
and the close window,
that's the one that has
lots to do with skins.
By the time you get rid of
the OS's window controls,
you've got to start adding some
in your own interface that you're
building as a content creator,
so we've got that.
As an application developer,
you could easily take advantage of this.
You could pass different numbers
than what we've got and have
your application catch them.
You could also have a user who's going
to be in the middle of the screen,
and you can just go ahead
and add a number to the app,
and it will automatically
get a message that
We've added things for doing
a better job of making movies
that work well on the web.
We've got network status and
allowing you to check on whether the
network's up or whether -- I forget
exactly the number of steps,
but you can find out before
you make somebody's modem dial,
you can find out whether or not they're
online or not and ask them if they
want to go online or things like that.
And movie load state is very useful.
We can get all of the different
steps of loading an HTTP movie.
We can get information about that so
you can know when the movie is ready
to play all the way or when it's
completely downloaded or whatever.
With VR, we've added a number of new
things which are pretty cool.
We basically now have enough
actions in there to reproduce
the whole controller so when you
create your skin movie or whatever,
you don't need to worry about
the fact that you don't have the
VR controller around anymore.
You can create buttons for all of it.
Or even if it's not skin,
you want to just do your own artwork,
we've got that in there.
They also have the ability to
enable and disable hotspots,
which is neat.
You can have any particular
hotspot be turned on or off.
We've got a bunch of new math functions,
sort of things that some people had
created creative workarounds for before
but now they're built into QuickTime.
And just a whole lot of other things,
like setting base and
treble and it goes on.
As you saw when I showed this slide
earlier on with the zillions of actions,
we added something
like 100 new-- actions.
Mac Media Flash support has been
upgraded in this release to 4.
Combining Macromedia, Flash,
and Video is a pretty interesting
thing to do and QuickTime is
really the best way to do it.
You can layer it up in sophisticated
ways and produce things that
you couldn't do anywhere else.
We've got the full MP3 audio support.
Text input is another approach to having
text input besides our text tracks.
We've got loading movie
and loading variable.
A QuickTime movie can have
multiple flash tracks,
so you can get involved in
intricate things there that again
are different from what you might
be doing just in Macromedia Flash.
And we have a number of new wired
actions that are specifically in
there for working with flash tracks.
For instance, we can get and set the
text in a flash text field.
And another really interesting
one is the ability to trigger a
flash button via a wired action,
enabling you to have very complicated
and Eric Schultz are the
developers of QuickTime 5.
The Flash action scripts,
which you trigger from your wired
content from elsewhere in QuickTime.
Also,
you can do pretty interesting things
with Macromedia's Flash tool itself.
With Flash 4 added export for
QuickTime movies and that still
works quite well on Flash 5 and there
is no need for an upgrade there to
handle the new QuickTime 5 support.
So now we'll look at some
Flash movies on Demo 2.
Okay, so these are the Swift files here,
the actual exported movies from, um,
The QuickTime icon is a feature
that allows you to play the game
directly in the Flash player.
Drag and drop one of them
onto QuickTime Player.
The importer creates a new movie
right away with the Flash track.
This one's got a lot of Flash 4
sort of features like text input,
and what else?
It's got some ActionScript stuff
that's doing calculations and
all based on the input there.
Right out of the box,
we're taking the Flash 4 content
and making it work completely.
Another example of that is
duplicating movie clips.
Movie clips are Flash's way of having
a hierarchy with unslaved time bases.
These things just work exactly
the way they do in Flash.
And Flash 4 added support for making
it really easy to drag elements around,
so that's working great too.
Server Communication.
Well, we've added the QuickTime lists,
QT lists to QuickTime 5.
QuickTime lists are basically
hierarchical data structures.
You've got various elements
and attributes which can
have children and all.
It resembles XML somewhat,
but it is not XML.
It's an internal thing.
You can have multiple
root levels and whatnot,
which you cannot do in XML.
There's one QT list per movie or track.
So you can have multiple
QT lists in a movie.
We are using XML as an exchange format
to send these to and from servers.
In order to make them work as XML,
we do add a root element called
QT list because a QT list structure
in a QuickTime movie can have
more than one root element.
It's important to note that QT lists
are very useful for things that are
not related to server communication.
I'll show you some stuff
about that in a little bit.
We have a lot of wired actions in there
to manipulate these to where the list can
be internal to a movie when you load it.
You can go on to manipulate
it via wired actions.
You can load them.
You can send them back to the server.
You can walk through the
hierarchy and find out things
about them and do various stuff.
Let's have some QT list demo.
This will be demo 4 again.
[Transcript missing]
QT List movie that's not
doing too much in the way of,
or any external communication.
We've got this simple
little kaleidoscope movie.
Now this is just doing fun little
sprite things in order to have something
to build a list and keep track of.
You'll see over here
on the right hand side,
I'm building a list.
Each thing that gets dragged winds
up adding an element to the list.
As I change them,
the appropriate elements
in the list get modified.
If I reset what's on the screen,
I can read the list and load it.
The movie does not store
everything in the list.
It just stores the first
ones that get dragged.
The rest is generated
from the list instead.
You can delete them and have it
delete the item from the list.
So this is sort of an example of where
you might want to do some sort of
record keeping within a QuickTime movie.
It's a much simpler way than having a
big long list of variables somewhere
basically taking care of it for you.
Oh, and this also,
the text track over here on the
right is taking the content of the
QuickTime list and using some copied XML
Create XML from the list and put it
into this text here so that this is
what it looks like in an XML format.
And we can scroll the text field now.
That's another new
QuickTime 5 text action.
This is a sprite track over
here sending events over to
tell the text track to scroll.
Let's go back to the list player again.
I showed this very briefly
when talking about skins,
but this guy uses a QuickTime list.
So there's something called Movie List.
It's written in XML.
Each movie in the entry has a
name and has got a description,
a bit of text, I call it a paragraph,
it didn't wind up that way,
a pointer to a thumbnail,
and a pointer to the URL.
The source files that are getting
referenced are all down here.
When I open the Nav Unit
It reads in the list and then
goes and finds out what the
thumbnails were and sticks them in.
And when someone has read the list,
it's got all that data
that was in the XML file,
now in a QT list format in the movie.
And it can use that to find out
what text to put in for the brief
descriptions for the movies.
It uses that to know what URL to
call for when we open up the movie.
And change it.
[Transcript missing]
Similarly put together,
which has the right name,
that's what will get fetched locally.
This is using a get list.
And we have a different set of movies,
something a little more up to
date than what we had before.
And again, just switching around these
switches which ones they do.
So this enables you to--
This enables you to put effort into a
fancy interface movie or set of movies,
which might not be the sort of
thing which is worth doing every
week on a website or something,
but you can easily change the content
that this thing is using without having
anything to do with the QuickTime movie.
You upload new content,
you edit the QuickTime list,
and the movie suddenly
behaves differently.
Eric Blazik,
Ken Turkowski This movie is loading
a child movie into the window
there to show whichever content.
There's that close action
I was talking about.
The other thing you can
do is with that list,
you can create another interface that...
reads the same list and
uses it in a different way.
This is a flash track which has
dumped the names of the movies or the
descriptions into flash text fields.
The roll over on the right
is the paragraph rather
than the brief description.
And the movies,
rather than using the little
thumbnails we've used,
the actual rolling movie's in there,
and it's all being masked nicely
with the flash alpha channels.
And we can click on
those and we get another,
a different player which
is related to this one.
So this is a way to repurpose,
in a way it's repurposing content
or it's just providing people with
different options for what look
they want or anything like that.
It's showing some versatility
in the QT list here.
Or the approach to making a
movie which relies on lists
to figure out how it drives.
I've just come across something
that I didn't talk about before.
We were talking about new messages.
We've got the thing for going full
screen and exiting that's in here.
We've also got the close message.
Let me show you another Flash movie.
We've got a Flash track and we've got
some sprite stuff down here that's
made to look like it goes together.
We've got editable text in here.
I'm reading that URL and
using it to load a video.
We're going to load a movie
into a child movie track here.
And in fact, that can be local or not.
We can use a relative URL.
[Transcript missing]
and Eric Levy are the developers
who created the new feature
called the "Scrub" button.
The "Scrub" bar is used to
set the length of the movie.
Let's get into another
pretty interesting demo.
Back to QT List, sorry about that.
Let's go over to Michael Schaff's
small hand site where we have
a movie that's up right now.
[Transcript missing]
When I enter something,
it is sending it off to a server
that's at Totally Hip's place.
Totally Hip, the publisher of LiveStage,
this is built in LiveStage,
and it will in fact be...
The source to this will be on
an upcoming LiveStage tutorial.
We can scrub with the
movable text track here.
Over here you see the syntax that's being
used to send messages back and forth.
You see the actual QT list.
You can change the slider here for how
quickly it goes and talks to the server
to find out what new messages there are.
One could imagine going
a lot further with this.
You could easily build a chat kind
of movie where your video stream is
on one side and then that's there.
So that's,
I mean this is the first in a server
communication demo we have here.
I mean this one gets into some
pretty interesting options.
So let's go back to
slides for a little while.
Integration of media, as I said earlier,
is a really, really big deal with the...
I must have been somebody out there,
okay.
Like I said before,
QuickTime does a lot of interesting
individual things and we even have
competition on some of those things,
but nobody lets you put it all together
to make these really complicated,
or not so complicated demos,
but nobody lets you add
it together the same way.
These complex movies have such a
power to hold the user's attention.
You can build quizzes,
you can build games,
you can do all sorts of things.
You can wind up with
self-contained interactive
experiences that play anywhere.
You can play them in the player,
you can play them in your, in a browser,
you can play them in your own
application and you can be pretty sure
that they're going to look the same
all over the place in different places.
The platform and browser issues
are much less of a deal than other
ways of doing this sort of thing.
So now we'll go back into demos and
look at some highly integrated movies.
This will be on demo 4.
Uh, okay.
We've got another demo involving
Janie Fitzgerald's work.
This is also, uh,
collaborators on this were
Robert West and Michael Schaff.
Um, it's Robert's interface, Janie's VR,
and Michael's, uh, wiring.
We've got rollover buttons here,
a nice skin.
We've even got some help text
on your hotspots at times.
This is another movie which will
be put together as a tutorial
for the new version of LiveStage.
It will be available on their
CD eventually and for LiveStage 3
as well as probably on their site.
We've got a sprite-based compass up here,
which is reading pan angles
from the movie and updating.
We've got the sprite layers,
got these buttons which are...
In some cases,
communicating to the VR and
telling it to move around.
We can go full screen.
The mask that overlays the panorama
is done with a nice alpha channel,
so it's really smooth and rounded.
And again,
it's customized the user experience
to this content completely.
It's a very appropriate
way to be using this stuff.
Oh, and there's directional audio.
Paying attention to the pan
angle for how the audio is doing.
A very nice, well integrated,
highly interactive experience.
We do a lot of things,
people do a lot of really
fascinating things in,
um,
In the browser,
this is a Greenpeace.org site
done by EC Media up in Vancouver.
It's popping different
QuickTime movies into different
places to all work together.
We can, we've got a QuickTime VR movie
here that's unwrapped and flat.
It winds up with a panable, zoomable map.
And we can look at the map here and find
out where the different hotspots are.
That sends a message to the
QuickTime movie up here.
The top half of the browser
window is one movie.
The bottom half of the control
bar and all is another movie.
The movie up here is the panorama.
There's also a picture track there,
which is making these other
things show up on the side,
the images.
Let's find another one.
We click on it.
We get yet another movie.
This is all one QuickTime movie.
You know, HTML here.
There's a slideshow.
We can leave it on autoplay or we can
choose which slide we want to look at.
We can speed up, slow it down.
The text is drawn with a text track.
We've got to close here.
That actually is doing it via
JavaScript so that we can tell
the browser to close the window.
And we've got things
like the zoom in and out.
Oh, and they've got the ever
popular compass down there.
In this case,
the panning movie is communicating
with a different movie for the
place where that's going on.
So you're seeing intermovie communication
between a lot of different movies here,
which is pretty cool.
I believe we can jump to
new nodes either via--
[Transcript missing]
Another EC Media demo.
This is sort of a
distance learning example.
We've got a gentleman here from
Electronic Arts talking about
the ways that they get their,
they use academic research to
figure out what to put into their
games and all to get new ideas.
And he's talking about a topic
in a very general sort of way
and he'll occasionally talk about
topics which are interesting
without going into greater detail,
but we can go and click on those
to get more information about
the topic he's going on about.
It's got illustrations and text and all.
And the background movie has paused.
When we say back,
the background movie picks up right away.
This is done with...
With QuickTime movie tracks.
These are movies which are
embedded inside of other movies,
which makes for a lot of
flexibility in saying,
figuring out the point that this movie
is playing at doesn't change the point
that this movie is playing at here.
There are not two tracks
in the same movie.
The, uh, and another one from EC Media.
These guys are very creative,
doing a lot.
This is an interface built just
about entirely out of Flash.
The, um,
they've got a lot of rollover stuff here.
They've got draggable
embedded movie clips and,
um, the sort of stuff that you can
do with a lot of Flash scripting.
Uh, and they've got a movie
that's built inside it.
Um, this movie,
I believe this thing is built
mostly in Flash with very little,
uh, work from elsewhere.
And this is obviously linear video,
but you can go and set
it to play slow motion,
which is extremely
difficult to do in Flash,
which is a frame-based format
rather than a time-based one.
There's no way of saying
play at whatever speed,
but in QuickTime all you've
got to do is say play at,
set the rate to .5 or whatever.
Um, and, uh,
Meanwhile,
their slick rollover behaviors work
fine and are uncoupled to the time base
because that is taking advantage of
some of the really useful Flash aspects.
And let's look back to talk even
more about the good old list player.
Just to talk about it in
terms of integration of media,
this movie here has got
A sprite layer in the background
which contains the artwork
and this basic button here.
It's got a text track down here in this
opening which we use information from the
rollovers to put the information into.
And each one of these is a small
child movie which has loaded from
the direction of the QT list.
When we click on these,
We first open up the second
movie with a get URL action and
then send a message and do a
little inter-movie communication,
send a message to the movie once it's
open after paying attention to make
sure it opened up all the way and
tell it what movie it needs to load.
We also have used a new QuickTime 5
action which lets you check on whether
a movie is active or not to dim or
highlight the background movies.
We've got, again,
a wired sprite layer in the
background to set up the buttons
and whatnot and a movie track
that's in the foreground here.
We've also got another hidden
movie track which... is being
used as a sprite override.
Any QuickTime sprite can use
any track that's available in
a movie to override its image.
In this case,
it would be hard to have the
perspective of the shadow and all
this stuff be a draggable sprite.
So what we've done is we've got a...
A little linear movie of a thumb moving,
which is loaded in a child
movie and hidden and then
used to override that sprite.
The beauty of that is that it becomes
time independent of everything else.
The length of this track does
not have to sync at all with
the length of this track,
which it's not going to because
we can change that so often.
So, yeah,
one of the great things about the movie
track is to have unslaved time bases,
which don't happen elsewhere.
[Transcript missing]
That's unfortunately
sort of winding it up.
Thank you very much.
I guess there's a couple of slides left.
Right, the feedback forum will be
tomorrow afternoon at 3:30.
We'll be there to hear
everything you've got to say.
Please do attend.
We want that input.
And in the fall,
don't forget QuickTime Live.
Anyone who's really interested
in QuickTime needs to be there.
It's got separate tracks for those
interested in API level development,
content development,
and the marketing sort of issues.
And it's a really fun event.
So thanks a lot.